"People Are Either Too Fake or Too Real": Opportunities and Challenges in Tie-Based Anonymity

This is a study on two tie-based anonymous social networking applications. The authors have conducted interviews with users from the USA and China in order to learn their motivations and practices of using two such applications. Based on the interviews, the authors contribute a collection of themes as well as suggestions for design implications that could help to overcome the challenges of such forms of communication.

The reviewers were generally positive towards the paper, with scores ranging from neutral to very positive. Also, the scores seem to increase with the confidence of the reviewers. While there seems to be agreement about the importance and timeliness of the topic and the soundness of the approach, there were concerns about the theoretic underpinning of the findings which would benefit from further elaboration. Specifically, R2 asks for a further development of the findings, which in large parts read "intuitive" and vague in their connection to the literature. R3 similarly asks for some clarifications with regard to some findings, and R4 asks for a more critical evaluation of the motivations of the users. In a similar stance, R4 would like to see a greater discussion of the trade-offs between opportunities and challenges, which should also be more reflected in the design implications section.

My own impression of the paper before the rebuttal is pretty much in line with the reviews: this is a nice study on a relevant topic, but some of the findings could be further developed for a stronger contribution. I also think this should be doable within the limitations of a conference submission process, and the reviewers make some specific suggestions how it can be achieved. 

The rebuttal addressed many of the issues outlined in the reviews, but it did not convince the reviewers to raise their scores. There has been a long discussion during the PC meeting about whether it would be acceptable. In the end, it was  decided to accept the paper in the expectation that the authors carefully implement the changes they have promised in their rebuttal. Congratulations!